I feel like there's two buckets of
teams. There's the product teams that
are just like, "Of course, we need to
make our product delightful. That's how
we win." And then there's just a bunch
of product teams that are like, "What
are you even talking about? We have
features to ship. We got to close some
deals. We don't have time for this."
>> Sometime people think about the light as
the confetti. If you shake the phone,
you have snowflake falling. But that's
not the light I talk about. The light is
actually this ability to create products
that serve for both emotional need and
functional need.
>> I know exactly what you mean. I never
check Instagram anymore. I just don't
feel good when I open it. The feeling of
the product makes me not use it anymore.
>> How can we build products where we can
achieve the light goal? Recently, I
booked an Uber. I was waiting for the
driver and suddenly the driver cancelled
for no specific reason. But what
happened is that when I get to the app,
there have been only two clicks to get
refunded. Bingo, your money is back. The
emotion was supposed to be low and
suddenly the solution completely removed
the stress and the friction.
>> Let's talk about how to actually
approach this systematically. We need to
satisfy three main pillars. The very
first one is
>> the big elephant in the room. When is
this not worth your time? Companies like
Workday, SAP and Salesforce that did
really well, very undelightful.
>> The hard truth is that
>> today my guest is Nasin Shenal. Nasin
was a longtime product leader at Skype,
Spotify, Google Chrome, and Google Meet.
And through her experience building some
of the most widely used consumer
products in the world, she developed a
really pragmatic framework for how to
build delightful and retentive product
experiences. A lot of product leaders
talk about building great user
experiences and making their products
delightful, but I've never seen a
concrete and repeatable approach to
actually doing this, especially one that
helps you separate low impact confetti
features, as Nes calls them, and ones
that actually drive your KPIs and keep
people coming back. In our conversation,
we talk about why product teams with
limited resources, lots of fires and
priorities should actually spend time on
making their products more delightful. I
found this part super interesting and
surprising. We talk about what sorts of
product teams and companies should
invest in Delight, particularly B2B
versus B TOC, and then we dive into her
specific four-step framework for
discovering the highest ROI
opportunities and prioritizing across
them. Nine shares a bunch of really cool
real world examples from her time at
Google Meet and Spotify and Chrome and
also examples from Apple and a bunch of
other companies she's looked at. A huge
thank you to Matt Lame for suggesting
topics for this conversation. If you
enjoy this podcast, don't forget to
subscribe and follow it in your favorite
podcasting app or YouTube. That helps
tremendously. And if you become an
annual subscriber of my newsletter, you
get a year free of 15 incredible
products, including a year free of
lovable, replet, bolt, naden, linear,
superhuman, dscript, whisper flow,
gamma, perplexity, warp, granola, magic
patterns, raycast, chapardd, and mobin.
Head on over to lennisnewsletter.com and
click product pass. With that, I bring
you Nasarine Shankal. Today's episode is
brought to you by DX, the developer
intelligence platform designed by
leading researchers. To thrive in the AI
era, organizations need to adapt
quickly. But many organization leaders
struggle to answer pressing questions
like which tools are working? How are
they being used? What's actually driving
value? DX provides the data and insights
that leaders need to navigate this
shift. With DX, companies like Dropbox,
Booking.com, Adion, and Intercom get a
deep understanding of how AI is
providing value to their developers and
what impact AI is having on engineering
productivity. To learn more, visit DX's
website at getdx.com/lenny.
That's getdx.com/lenny.
You fell in love with building products
for a reason, but sometimes the
day-to-day reality is a little different
than you imagined. Instead of dreaming
up big ideas, talking to customers, and
crafting a strategy, you're drowning in
spreadsheets and roadmap updates, and
you're spending your days basically
putting out fires, a better way is
possible. Introducing Jira product
discovery, the new prioritization and
road mapping tool built for product
teams by Atlassian. With Jira product
discovery, you can gather all your
product ideas and insights in one place
and prioritize confidently, finally
replacing those endless spreadsheets.
Create and share custom product road
maps with any stakeholder in seconds.
And it's all built on Jira where your
engineering team is already working. So
true collaboration is finally possible.
Great products are built by great teams,
not just engineers. Sales support,
leadership, even Greg from finance.
Anyone that you want can contribute
ideas, feedback, and insights in Jira
product discovery for free. No catch.
And it's only $10 a month for you. Say
goodbye to your spreadsheets and the
never- ending alignment efforts. The old
way of doing product management is over.
Rediscover what's possible with Jira
product discovery. Try it for free at
atlassian.com/lenny.
That's atlassian.com/lenny.
Nasarine. Thank you so much for being
here and welcome to the podcast.
>> Hi Lenny. Thanks for having me.
>> It's my pleasure. So, you just published
uh a book that is coming out uh or just
came out a couple days ago from the time
this podcast is coming out. It's on a
very polarizing topic, product, it's
called product delight. And the reason I
think it's polarizing is I feel like
there's two buckets of teams. There's
like the teams, the product teams that
are just like, of course, we need to
make our product delightful and that's
how we win. That's how we differentiate.
It's so important. And then there's just
a bunch of product teams that are like,
what are you even talking about? We have
features to ship. We got to close some
deals. We don't have time for this. We
have fires constantly. We got to rebuild
our infrastructure. Why do we have no
time for delightful stuff? So the my
goal for this conversation is basically
two parts. One is help people understand
why this is worth investing in very
practically, not just the warm and
fuzzies of it. And then two, give them
an actual framework and model for how to
do this successfully and not waste time
on stuff that's not useful. How does
that sound?
>> Sounds like a great goal. And uh let's
share this goal together today.
>> Okay. This is our mutual goal. We have
aligned KPIs. Okay, so let me let me
start with just this broad question and
let's just see where this goes. What is
your best pitch for why a product team
with limited resources, constant fires,
lots of priorities should spend time on
delight and delightful features?
>> Every time I talk about the light,
whether in a conference or a workshop, I
always start with this very simple
question. What is your favorite product?
I mean what I love about it is the range
and the variety of answer I usually get.
Like some people would choose products
for the productivity it get and other
may choose product because they feel joy
or comfort with it without even knowing
how to explain that and that's even more
exciting because we connect with
products at different levels. We might
connect with product for the
functionality part or we might connect
with product because it fulfill a
certain emotional need that we were not
even aware of. And so the best product
deeply emotionally connect with users
and that's the essence of the light. So
the light is actually this ability to
create products that serve for both
emotional need and functional need. And
the hard truth is that even functioning
product very well functioning product
may tend or still experience some
trouble or issue getting tractions and
uh growth and uh and the success that is
hoped for if they do not allow users to
feel certain emotions. So let's take
Spotify for example. Like users do have
plenty of options to stream music, but
features like wrapped or mood based
recommendation or like the discover
weekly allow users to be seen and heard
and even connected. So that's why like
the light is not about sprinkling joy on
top of utility utility. It's about
creating an experience where emotion is
completely on the heart of the
experience. So let's be clear, delight
is not a luxury nowadays and more
nowadays because the market is so
crowded. It's even a differentiator.
It's a strategy that we can adopt in
order to grow our business, gain in
loyalty, in word of mouth, in growth,
and even in revenue.
>> I think about as you talked I've had
some feelings recently like this
actually. I never checked Instagram
anymore and my wife I was talking to my
wife about it because she checks it
often and I was just like I just don't
feel good when I open it. doesn't feel
nice and so I just don't ever go there.
And so she sends me all these DMs and
things in there. I'm just like I never
nothing you send me in Instagram I will
even see. And that that actually is a
recent example of just like yeah the
feeling of the product makes me not use
it anymore. So I know exactly what you
mean. I also think about linear which is
like their whole thing initially was
we're just going to make the most
amazing basically task management system
and on the surface you'd be like that is
not going to work. There's like Jira and
Asana and Monday and all these guys uh
you're not going to win just making it
awesome and they are winning. They're
doing super well uh because they are so
thoughtful about every part of the
experience and you could say it's it's
very delightful. So I I totally hear
what you're saying when you talk about
delightful features adding a delightful
feature just like what is what's a good
way to understand what's a delightful
feature making it delightful. So when we
create products uh it's really important
that the solution that we're building is
solving for both needs and I really
highlight the fact that there are
functional needs like for example you
want to book a flight you want to listen
to music and it should also solve for
the emotional needs which could be I
want to feel less lonely I want to feel
comfort I want to feel secure and the
bucks product are those that create and
craft solutions that blend the two. So
if you can blend the two dimensions like
the functional side and the emotional
side within the same solutions then you
are creating what we call emotional
connection. And by the way emotional
connection is not a new topic. I mean
you probably heard that very much in the
design area and the marketing area as
well. I mean you agree with me the best
design is the emotional design. The best
marketing is the marketing like
emotional marketing. I mean we see the
best ads coming from those emotional
ads. But the reality is that and even
before I start writing the book, I
realized that it's not that much spoken
about in business and in products. I
mean that by itself create a gap because
you have designers talking about
emotion, marketers talking about emotion
and then in the middle business are like
what are you talking about? We need to
ship features, we need to ship
functionality. So we cannot achieve that
so much needed goal. So in product I
call it delight. You might ask why
delight? Because every time I talk to a
founder or CPO or any product leader,
they all start by saying we need to
delight our users. I mean this sentence
by itself is very much repeated. The
truth is that they don't know how to
delight. I mean we agree that we should
delight but we don't necessarily know
how to delight. So, so I started from
this concept and I tried to come up with
a concrete of course framework but also
an actional way to put that into
practice. And in order to get even
deeper into the definition, I want to
highlight that there are two definition
for the light. I promise I'm not going
to spend too much time on the theory,
but the first definition is a theoretic
definition. So the light is an emotion
and there's a professor called professor
Puchik who actually created what we call
the wheel of emotion. Uh and he actually
conceptualized the light as a
combination of two emotions. Could you
guess what are these two emotions?
>> Uh the combination well I I've seen your
stuff so I think I know what you're
going to say. Uh there's going to be
exceeding expectations
is a part of it and then I forget the
other piece but I think that's an
important element. So, so the light is
an emotion and it's a combination of two
emotions.
>> So, these two emotions are joy and
surprise.
>> Okay, there we go. I swear it right. I
swear to right that second. I'll I'll
take it. Okay, joy and joy and surprise.
>> Just just try to feel it now. Like
imagine yourself in a moment or a
situation where you are experiencing at
the same time joy and surprise. In that
case, you are delighted. So that's the
theory behind delight. Now let's go to
the practical side. The practical side
where how can we put the light into
practice? How can we build products
where we can achieve this delight goal?
And in order to do that you we need to
satisfy three main pillars. The very
first one is like removing friction. The
second one is anticipating need and the
third one is exceeding expectation. I'm
going to explain these one by one maybe
through examples. so that people can get
exactly what I talk about. The first one
I said by removing friction. It's really
important when you're building product
to identify what we call this valet
moment. These moments where the emotion
is at the at the bottom and maybe the
user is experiencing some anxiety, some
stress and how can we leverage our
experience so we can reduce these valet
moments. The best example I could share
with you is actually something that did
happened to me recently. I was actually
about to take a train from Paris to
London. So I booked an Uber and Uber
assigned me a driver. I was waiting for
the driver and suddenly the driver
cancelled for no specific reason and I
was so stressed. I I really had to catch
my train. I was like late already. So I
jumped into the first taxi that just
passed in front of my building and I
forgot about my about my Uber
application. What happened is that
actually when your driver cancel Uber do
their best in order to assign you a new
driver of course and I didn't pay
attention to that. So the driver came to
my place he waited for me and then I
ended up being charged for the waiting
time charged for the trip that I didn't
took and I was so angry when I realized
that on my app. So, I was
psychologically prepared that I need to
write an entire essay about what
happened and how I want and I need to be
refunded. But what happened is that when
I get to the app, there have been only
two clicks to get refunded. It's like,
select the trip you want to be refunded
and bingo, your money is back. Wow. like
you know I mean I've been into these
moments where the emotion was supposed
to be low and suddenly the like the the
solution that they provided is something
that completely removed the stress and
the friction and of course now I can
take more trips without the stress that
might come out of that. So that's
removing friction.
>> That's a really good example just to
double down on how awesome this is like
just making it easy to do something that
you expect to be really hard is
delightful. like cancelling a
subscription, unsubscribing from
something. Uh, awesome example. Okay,
keep going.
>> So, the second pillar is about
anticipating need. Meaning that remember
in delight you have surprise. And if you
have to wait for your users to tell you
exactly what they need from you, then
you are just honoring their need. You're
not exceeding or you're not even
anticipating what they are already uh
you want to offer them. So another
example probably is uh actually I my
husband for many many years he's trying
to convince me to move to Revolute you
know Revolute app that
>> banking app and honestly I was
comfortable enough with my traditional
banking app and I didn't want to add
more
>> uh check and etc. So I did resist not uh
getting into the temptation of trying.
But that was until one specific moment
actually a couple of months ago. We went
on a family trip to Singapore and when
we landed there we actually realized
that our French operator or like do not
allow us to have like international
calls for free meaning that we had to
pay extreme high fees for roaming and
for data. So what are the choices like
either you have to buy a local ECM or
you need to accept these fees which are
very high and that was the moment where
I looked at my husband he opened his
Revolute app he went to a tab called eim
buy eim €7 it's done it's like how the
hell did revolute thought about putting
an eim for a bank app I mean it's really
insane but then when you think about it
like most of revolute users are
international or expats. So they travel
a lot and in that case they anticipated
the need that people will travel and
they will probably need at certain
destination that kind of feature. So
that's the anticipating need part
creating surprise by giving them
something before even people ask you
for. And by the way Rahul Vora I mean
the CEO of superhuman who've been on the
show by the way and I loved his show. He
said something very similar. He said
like for in order for a product to be
loved, you need to set the bar higher
than your users themselves. Like that's
about exceeding expectation. And now
we're getting to the third pillar which
is uh exceeding expectation. So once you
anticipated their need, it's really
important to exceed expectation which
means that okay, how can I surprise them
by giving them more than they ask? And
here again I have an example maybe that
everyone is familiar with. I mean, I use
Chrome. I love Chrome, but my husband is
a Microsoft corporate user, like heavy
Microsoft user, and he uses like Edge
all the time. I mean, the other day I've
seen him doing something that really
surprised me. Like, he was about to buy
a coffee machine and he went through the
entire journey. He put the coffee
machine on like a for payment. he was
about to pay and suddenly actually Edge
suggested him for a complete auto field
feature a coupon like he was about to
pay something like €120 and suddenly you
get 15% discount because Edge found out
that there is a coupon you can apply and
and you just get 15% discount that's for
me exceeding expectation because I was
not even asking for a coupon I was about
to pay the 2020 anyway so that also by
itself grew create a kind of surprise.
So these are the three pillar we need to
play with them. We don't have to do them
all at the same time. But every time we
build the product, we need to think
about how can we reduce friction. How
can we anticipate our users need and how
can we like uh create that uh exceed
expectation part of the products and and
and I really wanted to make this clear
because sometime people think about the
light as the confetti or I mean the
other day I was giving a workshop and
someone showed me like hey if you shake
the phone you have snowflake falling.
Yes. Yeah. I mean, why not? But that's
not the light I talk about. It has to
come with a value. It has to come with
with a concrete reason. And I call this
like the confetti effect. Like people
think about confetti as a way of
delighting their users. But if it
doesn't bring any value, then don't do
it. And by the way, I'm not here to say
don't do confetti. I mean, why not?
Confetti could come with value and could
bring some joy. And the best example is
on Airbnb. maybe the one that you're
most familiar with. Like I'm an Airbnb
user both as a host but also as a guest
and as a host I have a goal which is to
make sure that I always keep my
superhost batch. Like I love that. And
of course it allows me to provide the
best experience for my guests. And you
know how it works like every three
months Airbnb reassess whether you want
to you can remain a superhost or not.
But you know what happened like every
three months if you're renewed as a
superhost and when you open the app it
the app turns into confetti like just to
celebrate that moment with you and that
kind of moment is like why not because I
feel like Airbnb is recognizing my
effort and celebrating that small moment
with me. So it's about making sure you
understand the value of your users and
making sure that you're providing a
solution that just brings them joy and
surprise. The superhost example is
actually uh really interesting because I
built the Superhost program. That was
one of my projects at Airbnb. Uh me and
my team. Uh and interestingly, it came
from not from like here's a metric we
need to move. Let's build superhost. It
instead came from this guy Chip Connelly
who was just on the podcast who was a
longtime hotelier and he's just like you
need a way to differentiate status and
levels of quality and this is one way to
do it. And there was a lot of actually
fear on the product team that this was
going to tank search conversion. People
be distracted by this thing.
Interestingly, it made hosts really
happy like you just like I want to be
superhost. I don't know why but I want
to be superhost. Uh it didn't actually
move any metrics which is interesting.
May might have changed over the years
but it was an interesting interesting
contrarian project that feels like how
can you not have it but it didn't really
move any metrics which always surprised
us but maybe it did later. Anyway, uh I
really love this very simple way of
thinking about delight and I think I
think you're almost underelling what
this framework is helping people with
which is just how to build great product
experiences.
So there's this joy plus surprise piece
which is just the emotional component.
You'll feel delighted if you're there's
joy and surprise and then this three
piece more I don't know even practical
way of thinking about it. removing
friction, anticipating needs, exceeding
expectations. Like this is how to build
great experiences. And part of that is
being delighted by it. Part of is just
this is a great experience. I think a
big elephant in the room with this
question is B2B versus B TOC. And just
like when is this not worth your time? I
imagine companies like Workday and SAP
and Service Now and all these Salesforce
that did really well, very undelightful.
The way I think about this is when it's
like a green field market and there's
nothing amazing yet it you don't need to
make it as great of an experience as
long as it's solving a real big pain
point. But as the market gets more
competitive linear is a good example
here. The way you can stand out is make
it a much better experience, make it
much more delightful. Um thoughts. Yeah,
thanks for bringing this B2B versus B2C
thing because it comes a lot and every
time I talk about the light, people
might connect that to the B2C word and
honestly for me like as long as there
are human using the product at the end
of the day then they need their emotion
to be honored. So um so for example when
I actually started this project of the
light I realized that most of my career
has been mostly closed to the B2C world.
Yes. Like I've been working for Skype,
Spotify, Google Meet, Google Chrome. So
I quickly realized that I needed to
interview people from the B2B space so
that I get the sense of what's the light
in their space. So I interviewed people
from like GitHub or Atlassian or
Snowflake. I mean I really wanted to get
the variety of industry and type of
industries. And what I realized which is
probably not a surprise is that they do
value emotional connection in a way or
another. I mean it's not something new.
They just do it in a different way. So
for example for Dropbox they do have a
product principle called cupcake. For
snowflake they have something called um
superhero. I mean the names could vary
but the meaning is exactly the same. I
mean it's all about bringing joy to the
customers. So I came up with this
concept of B2 which is business to
human. For me it's really important to
take into consideration human emotion
while building the product whether in a
B2B space or a B2C space. And by the way
exactly as you said like since people
are so much exposed to B2C examples I
mean the expectation are getting higher
and we are expecting also from B2B
products to become more human and to
feel more human. So actually when I
wrote this book I defined what I call
humanization as a type of delighter. I
mean I listed couple of delighters and
humanization is one of them and I even
said it's my favorite. It's about asking
the following question. If my product
was a human, how would the experience
would be better? Just think about it
that way. So for example, when I work
for Google Meet and I actually joined
Google Meet right when pandemic happened
like 2020 and we had of course to work
on those challenges of like how people
are taking these new ways of working
from home. So instead of comparing
Google Meet to Zoom or Teams or whatever
other video conferencing tool, do you
know what did we compare Google Meet to
the best? Do you pick?
>> Maybe just a like an actual
conversation.
>> Exactly. I mean that's the bar that
we're setting oursself like comparing
Google Meet to how this experience of
meeting could be better if we were all
having this conversation in a row.
Because if you get this as a goal, you
set a higher bar of expectation and you
start to think in a human way. And by
the way, there is another example that
really stick to me which uh when I was
preparing for this project, I spoke with
a head of product from Daizen and he
said a very similar thing. Actually,
when I spoke with Andy, he said um we
don't compare our Dyson vacuum cleaner
to other vacuum cleaner. We compare them
to what if I hire a real person and how
would that real person would be better
than the robot that we are building.
Actually, if you hire a certain person
to clean your house, you probably tell
that person to start with a certain room
or to clean in certain way which the
robot was not ready at that time. So
they added recommendation into their
robot to get closer to what a real human
like a space could happen. So that
that's the concept of humanization. It's
all about making sure that your product
or it's actually about reminding users
that there are real human behind the
product and we want to achieve that.
>> If you want to see a really delightful
humanlike uh vacuum cleaner, the the
Madic, I don't know if you've seen the
Madic. Uh I just got one and yeah, that
is a pure delight. They they nailed they
don't they didn't need to read your
book. They nailed it. Um, so coming back
to this B2B piece, I think it's an
important piece to just make sure we
help people see. Do you feel like what I
said is true that if it's like a new
market without a ton of competition and
you're solving a big pain point, they're
like, "This is a hair on fire problem. I
just need I need a CRM that works or I
need a customer service thing for
service now." uh there's less need to
get this right to exceed expectations to
anticipate needs. If you're just like
solving the problem they have and
there's nothing else uh that's probably
going to be okay.
>> Honestly, maybe the product will work
and of course it has to work but the
problem is that if you do not integrate
that part into the way how you're
building the solution, you're probably
just building a product but not the
product that will stand out. I mean if
there is another competitors who's
addressing the emotional needs then the
other product will win. I mean that's
how the market is today. So of course
you will make a product that works but
do you want it to just work or do you
want it to stand out? And and by the way
since we're talking about this B2B and
B2C space just a couple of days ago I
was pinged in a post uh link in post
that I really loved. So I'm sharing it
here. Actually, it was from a product
leader from Buffer and actually he said
something really interesting. He
actually said that we realized that um
there are about 2% of our users who are
not using Buffer. They are clearly
inactive. They are not using our product
for many months. So, we decided to send
them an email and say, "Hey, we noticed
that you're not using our product. Are
we going to refund you?" Meaning that
we're going to lose money. Yes, but it's
about trust and integrity. So, this is a
B2B space. This is about creating trust.
This is about creating this connection.
And the reaction is really funny because
you might remind people to like resign
or or close your contract with a certain
product. But the that even create a
deeper connection that might even like
drive you to not cancel at all. Like,
okay, you're inviting me to cancel, but
thanks so much for your honesty. So I'm
going to remain I mean this kind of
thing build trust over time and build
emotional connection over time. So it
might not as you said like create like a
big impact on metrics but over time as
you're building personality or building
a brand for your product it will
definitely have impact over time.
>> Slack I think is a good example that I
remember using Slack for the first time
the little delightful animations and
these little funny quotes and they ended
up being a $ 30 billion company. It
feels like what I'm hearing and is just
like the more competition there is, the
more you need to stand out, the more
this is something you need to get right
because if there's a problem you're
solving, no one else is. You don't the
experience doesn't have to be
incredible. Like Revolute, another
example, there's a lot of banking
products, but the way they stood out,
incredible experience, a lot of delight.
Okay, let's get to how to actually do
this. We've been so far we just like
here's why it's worth thinking about and
doing. Now, let's talk about how to
actually approach this. you have a
really simple and uh clear way of
approaching this so you're not spending
time in the wrong stuff uh and not just
investing in confetti.
You know it's called the delight model.
Talk about that.
>> Yes. So the things that we did not
really spoke about is the fact that over
my product career I've been like a
regular PM but during my time at Google
I've been the delight PM. So there is
even an entire product team who actually
work on making sure that the product is
delightful. I mean we do have such a
thing for Chrome. We have that for
Google meet. I mean that's a real thing
and of course I understand that not
every company could allow themselves
having the luxury of having a delight
PM. So that's why I came with this
concept of how can I make this
actionable and I created the delight
model. It's very simple. And by the way,
what I want to really highlight here is
that you do not have to change any ways
of working or any uh any strategic um
steps that you already taken in your
company. So what is the light uh model?
It happens in four steps. So we're going
to walk them one by one and the very
first step is about identifying users
motivators. What I mean is that actually
users are using products for complete
different reasons. And that's the very
first thing that you need to get aware
of. I mean we do segmentation. That's
usually something that most of product
people do. But we usually segment based
on demographic or behavioral meaning
that who they are or what do they really
do with the product. And the third type
of segmentation that I believe is very
powerful is the motivational
segmentation which means that you need
to segment your users based on why do
they use the products. Like for example,
like when I worked at Spotify, we know
that there are people who use Spotify to
search for a specific track or there are
people who use Spotify because they want
to get inspired and others will listen
to Spotify because they want to feel
less lonely or they want to feel
productive or they want to feel
connected. I mean these are motivators
and the very first step of the model is
to make sure that we have a list of what
we call like functional motivators and
the emotion motivators. I'm pretty sure
like most of your listeners are familiar
with the functional motivators but the
emotional motivators is an extremely
important part of the process because
we're going to use it later. That's the
first step.
>> So just to be just to be clear so
functional motivators are like I I need
to find a song. I need to get inspired.
I need to find something for my kid to
listen to. What are what are some
examples of emotional motivators?
>> So emotional motivator motivator for the
Spotify example could be I want to feel
less lonely or I want to uh change my
mood. That's something that sometime you
go to Spotify without specific uh thing
in your head to listen to but the the
need is to change your mood or to feel
nostalgic or something like that. I mean
these could be examples. For example, in
the case of Uber, I know that they have
been working heavily on allowing users
to feel secure and they build a lot of
feature for security reasons.
>> That's interesting. It's like a nuanced
version of jobs to be done. There's the
functional jobs to be done and then
there's the the how you want to feel.
>> Yeah.
>> Super interesting. Okay, great.
>> And even when the when we talk about
emotional motivators, we have the
personal emotional motivators and the
social emotional motivators. The
personal emotional motivators is how
user want to feel while using the
product. That's exactly is the social
emotional motivators is how users want
others to feel about them while using
the product. I mean think about wrapped
for example. A lot of people share their
wrapped because they want to share how
cool they are and in order to be
perceived cool and to feel connected. I
mean these are different areas of
emotional connection. So these are the
this is the first step identifying
emotional motivators also as well as
functional motivators. Now the second
step is to convert those motivators. I
mean as soon as you have this list how
can I convert these into an opportunity
or product opportunity. So you have the
basis I mean the hardest job is to
identify these motivators and then you
can identify product opportunities
related to that. And by the way, we see
the shift that we are not too much
talking about product space but rather
opportunity space because solutions are
not only about solving problems but also
about honoring needs and making sure
that we are solving for those needs. So
we can use things like how might we or
whatever by the way I'm not very
religious or strict about whatever
framework could be used here. It's all
about starting think from these
motivators and define them and put them
in the strategy as opportunities to be
solved. So this is second step. The
third step where we get to more concrete
things here is to try to identify
solutions but that solve for those
motivators. So remember we actually
identified functional motivators and
emotional motivators and I defined what
I call the delight grid. So the delight
grade is a matrix where we place
functional motivators and emotional
motivators and then you will select
among all the identified solutions and
you place them in the grade based on
what motivators is this solution solving
for. I mean is it solving for one
particular functional motivator? Is it
solving for one particular emotional
motivator or both? Why are we doing
this? Because we are categorizing
features into three types. There's the
surface delight when a feature is only
solving for an emotional motivator. I
mean, think about wrapped. We used
wrapped a couple of times here, but
wrapped has nothing functional into it.
It's all about allowing people to feel
cool and and share that with their
friends. That's surface delight. Another
example of surface delight. The other
day I was using my Apple Watch and it
was my birthday. So, on my birthday, I
had these balloon. I don't know if you
experienced that like it's saying happy
birthday in the screen. I mean why not?
This is all about creating this
emotional connection on the emotional
level only. The second type of delight
is what I call low delight. It's when
the feature is only solving for one of
those functional motivators. And of
course the third type which is the most
powerful for me is the deep delight.
Actually, this happens when you have a
feature where you are at the same time
solving for a functional need and also
solving for an emotional need. For
example, in the case of Spotify,
Discover Weekly or Spotify Jam could be
a good example of Deep Delight where we
actually can of course learn or get
inspired with a new music but in a
personalized way. So, it allows us to
feel heard and seen and understood by
the app. And that's the third step which
is about identifying solutions and make
sure that they are delightful and
categorize them here. The the fourth
step which is the last step of the model
is validating because how can we make
sure that we are not just creating only
surface delight or we are just doing it
in the wrong way. So I created something
that I call the delight checklist. It's
actually just a checklist that anyone
can go through to make sure that the
feature that we're building is making
user impact, is making a business impact
because like the light is not an excuse
to just add like a aesthetic and and fun
part in the product. It really has to be
aligned with the business. But also
there are other couple of things like
physibility uh familiarity. Uh a very
important part for me is inclusion. like
inclusion really has to be taken into
consideration here because uh when we
talk about emotion what makes me happy
is not necessarily what make you happy
right I mean even myself I might be
happy with something that is not
necessarily what's going to make me
happy tomorrow so inclusion is really
important when we talk about the light
because we've seen a lot of example
where is done wrong and I can sh can
share some example here as well so the
example that comes to my mind is
actually something that happened last
year here in Paris or in France in
general it was deliver you know this uh
company that deliver and actually it was
mother's day and on mother's day they
came up with the idea of sending
notification to deliver users and the
notification look exactly as a missed
call from your mom I mean if you look at
it from the screen it says like missed
call from your mom you click on it you
get like hey It's Mother's Day. Think
about your mom.
>> That's clever and it's clever.
>> It It was supposed to be delightful. The
problem is that this feature had the
worst press ever in France. Like people
really started to complain about it
because yes, the the intention was
positive. Yes, it was joyful for some
people, but not everyone has the luxury
of enjoying such notification. For some,
it means joy. For others, it means grief
or sorrow or whatever. So, it was not
inclusive enough. So that's why I'm
highlighting the inclusion part for
delight because it might be undertaken
sometime.
>> Okay. Incredible. And that was a really
good example of why you have this
checklist at the end of making sure this
is actually not going to upset people
while accidentally. This episode is
brought to you by Lucid Link, the
storage collaboration platform. You've
built a great product, but how you show
it through video design and storytelling
is what brings it to life. If your team
works with large media files, videos,
design assets, layered project files.
You know how painful it can be to stay
organized across locations. Files live
in different places. You're constantly
asking, "Is this the latest version?"
Creative Work slows down while people
wait for files to transfer. Lucid Link
fixes this. It gives your team a shared
space in the cloud that works like a
local drive. Files are instantly
accessible from anywhere. No
downloading, no syncing, and always up
to date. That means producers, editors,
designers, and marketers can open
massive files in their native apps, work
directly from the cloud, and stay
aligned wherever they are. Teams at
Adobe, Shopify, and top creative
agencies use LucidLink to keep their
content engine running fast and smooth.
Try it for free at lucidlink.com/lenny.
That's lucidl.com/lenny.
So let me just mirror back these four
steps and then I'm curious if there's
another example of something you built
that followed this model that had a
really good impact. But let me um let me
share. So basically what this is is to
help you figure out what is worth
investing in under this umbrella of
delight which hopefully now you're
convinced is worth your time especially
if you're trying to stand out amongst a
bunch of competitors. So step one is
identify user motivators like what are
people what are the jobs to be done both
very tang practically functionally you
call them functional needs and then also
emotional needs are people trying to
feel uh happy sad what within that
bucket actually I'm going to take a
quick tangent when you think about
emotional needs what's like the taxonomy
of is I know there's a lot of emotions
anger uh sad like what are the most
common emotional needs in your
experience to think about when you're
like okay here's when here's how to
think about what the options might be
>> it depends on the area but for some
product it could be security for other
it might be uh like I want to feel a
better version of myself like for
example when I spoke with some leaders
from muro uh they might consider this as
an emotional need like they are using
the product of course for the
functionality that is allowing them to
achieve but also to showcase that they
are better facilitator or they are a
better leader or just feel a better
version of themsel. This could be a
potential emotional motivator. So it can
range depending on the type of the
product or the industry. But actually
emotions could be like a we can use for
example the wheel of emotion as a basis
where we can select from it. But uh not
all emotion could apply to all type of
products. It has to be specific.
>> Cool. That's a really good example uh of
feeling security. It feels like that's
something that more and more people
want. uh all these AI companions like
they're gonna have all kinds of
emotional needs. So identify user
motivators, functional and emotional.
Turn those m motivators into delightful
product opportunities. Figure out where
you have opportunities to achieve that
sort of delight. Identify potential
solutions like actually ideulate on
solutions and then validate the ideas
through this checklist which you have in
your book. Are there a few you want to
share? there just like here's checklist
of stuff you want to think through.
>> Yeah. So we spoke about uh inclusion as
a really important one in the delight
checklist. Another area could be
familiarity as well because of course we
love innovation but we want to make sure
that we are not surprising too much. I
mean we uh think that we love surprise
but we don't want to be very much
surprised. And I have a maybe
interesting story uh to share here which
is something that um actually created
the success of Discover Wiki. So I'm not
sure if you know about that but I'm
going to go ahead and share it.
>> Yeah, let's do it. I I I use Discover
Weekly all the time.
>> So when Discover Wiki was first uh
thought of or
>> in Spotify by the way.
>> Yes. So discover weekly uh how it was
created was the fact that it was
supposed to be a complete discovery
meaning that it was supposed to be
complete new for the users. So that's
the idea behind it. It was like we're
not the user is not supposed to find or
listen tracks that has been listened to
or liked before. So it was shipped and
when it was shipped like of course we
have we started to see a big success in
the metrics but you know what two weeks
later people like the engineers realized
that there've been a bug in the feature
actually the bug was that sometimes the
algorithm was injecting some of the like
it song. So the playlist was not
completely new to the users. It had some
uh familiar feature I would say. So of
course the engineers fixed the bug and
you know what happened
>> metrics
>> all the metrics exactly like all the
metrics all the success metrics of the
feature was going down. So they quickly
realized that actually what users really
liked in the discover weekly was not the
fact that it was completely new but this
familiarity that has been injected
randomly in the app just made it even
more better and and even more
appreciated by the users. So they fixed
the bug and now with discover weekly
that you're enjoying is a buggy version
if we can say. So uh I mean that's why I
I added familiarity as as a as an
element that need to be checked because
we don't want to just inject complete
new surprising feature to the user that
might be shocking.
>> That's an amazing story. That was your
team that worked on that.
>> Yeah, I've been very close working with
them because I've been working on the uh
transcoding part and we had to transcode
these tracks for them.
>> That's so funny. How many other products
are we missing out on by not making
these mistakes by accident? Uh that
makes so much sense. Just like people
want a little bit of like, oh yeah, I
love that song. Oh, let's go. And then,
okay, there's something new. Uh that is
so funny. Okay, so so these are the four
steps. And again, what you're trying to
do here, I'll just go back to what makes
something delightful is you remove
friction. Make something that you expect
to be hard really easy, like canceling
an Uber and getting a refund on Uber,
right? anticipating needs which I think
was the eim example you gave in in the
Revolute app and Revolute by the way
very delightful experience from what I
hear I've never used it myself being in
the US and then exceeding expectations
giving someone and and then yeah the
giving something you never expected and
like wow what was the example there
again just to make that really concrete
of anticipating of exceeding
expectations
>> so for exceeding expectation we spoke
about for example the shopping uh it's
called the cashback feature the coupon
There are plenty of them. Yeah.
>> Yeah. That's amazing. Is that something
is that something Microsoft does or
that's like a extension that your
husband
>> installed? It's it's completely a part
of the product. And even autofill like
it's autofill. You don't even I mean
same like a password autofill.
>> And I know Chrome is working on it. So
it's coming if you are a Chrome user.
>> Wow. What a what a what a weird thing.
Like I I I love it. But it's funny that
that happens. Like all these poor
businesses are going to lose out on all
this revenue. Anyway, we don't have to
get into that. Uh okay. Is there an
example like a broader example of
something you worked on following this
model that was really successful, really
impactful?
>> When I worked at Google, particularly
for Google Meet, I told her like I've
been a PM for delight. So, we had that
mission that we really needed to delight
our users. And that's how I actually
learned that it's actually a discipline.
It's not the buzz word. It's something
that we can really put in place. So, I
do have two examples I can share with
you. One is from Google Meet and one
from Google Chrome. Which one do you
want to listen to?
>> Let's go with Chrome since we've sh
chatted about me, but I want to hear
them both. Let's start with Chrome. I
love Chrome.
>> Let's start with Chrome. So, when I work
for Chrome, I had to work on the most
challenging issue. What do you think is
>> most challenging issue of Chrome? Uh,
memory memory management. No,
>> there is even worse. It's tab
management. Tab management. How people
>> Okay. Okay. No, it's the it is the
hardest one because actually when I
worked at tab management, I realized
that people are working with tabs for
complete different way. It's like people
are leaving tabs open as reminders or as
to-do or just because they forget about
it.
>> Very guilty of that.
>> Yes. And I had to work on the iOS part
like the mobile part. And believe me,
like if you look at data, you see so
many people having so many tabs open. I
mean the numbers is just
>> 99 plus is all I ever see.
>> Yeah. Because we we do not put three
digit anyway. Smart.
>> The real number could be really high.
>> Oh man.
>> And so we had to address this problem. I
mean from a functional perspective this
is is a problem. I mean from a uh from a
memory from a performance from a space I
mean we don't want users to have to have
like 500 open tabs for without even
realizing by the way that they have 500
open tabs. So we had to work on that and
how did we do that? The way we did that
is actually we interviewed a lot of
users trying to ask them hey what if you
navigate through your open tabs and let
me know how you are like you can find an
open tabs or that that was for me a very
important phase because that's how you
realize that there is a relationship
between people and their tabs and I
really say relationship because for some
people's the their tabs are really
really important things I mean for them
there's absolutely
no choice for Chrome to close tabs on
their behalf. Like it's it's a it's a
really important thing. So we had to
understand that relationship first and
then we asked some people to navigate us
through how they can find the specific
tab in their tab grids and a lot of
people got like uh a bit frustrated or
like uh they found that a bit hard or
some of them had like they found that
there is a need to apologize not for the
content of course of the tab they had
but something like hey I'm I mean sorry
I usually don't have that many tabs open
and that's not the point the point is to
see if you get frustrated from the
experience itself or not. So that phase
by itself trying to understand not only
the functional part but also that
emotional part like the frustration part
the ashame part sometime was really key
in order to build a feature that can
align with these values and these
motivators or these emotional parts. So
what we built actually was a feature
that exists today on iOS uh which is
called inactive tabs. So inactive tabs
is that ability where you can actually
this this happened automatically where
all tabs um longer than 21 day that was
not touch that should actually or open
for more than 21 day are placed in this
folder called inactive tabs. So the
results is that you're getting like a
cleaner tab grid and people are feeling
less stressed about the amount of tabs
they have but also they keep that trust
of Chrome because they know that we did
not close their tabs their tabs are
actually there in that inactive tab
group. So that was one of the feature
that we built. It was supposed to be
functional only. I mean, we could just
maybe compress the thumbnail or just do
a performance way, but also that's an
example of deep delight where at the
same time you're solving for uh a
functional need and at the same time
including the emotional dimension into
it.
>> That is a super cool example. Uh that's
actually the reason I switched. I
started using Arc. I don't know if
you've used Arc before, which is built
on Chromium. It's its own startup, the
browser company. Josh Miller was on the
podcast. They delete they actually uh
delete your tabs after some number of
hour like days and once you get used to
that it's actually great. I'm like okay
please go away and then you can save
them if you want. You can pin them. I
haven't used Chrome in probably long
enough where I remember just the tabs
deactivate like they just have to reload
when you go back to their old. Uh it's
cool that now they move to a different
folder to kind of get them out of the
way and clean up your whole thing. Uh
very cool. Okay. What's the Google Meet
story?
So I told you when I joined Google meet
it was maybe one month before covid hit
Europe like the worst uh period you can
join Google meet because I mean the
usage just gets skyrocketed like we all
found ourselves moving from having
meetings in rooms and clinics to 100%
remote so the very first couple of
months and it was about three to four
months I had to understand the behavior
the impact or the emotional impact
effect of this new behavior, the fact
that people are staying home and having
these back to back, what's the emotional
impact of this new experience? And of
course, what we did was to interview a
lot of people and with the help of user
researcher, we collected a lot of
informations. And when we tried to
synthesize these uh informations, we
actually realized that there are three
main patterns like people are saying I'm
feeling bored. People are saying there
is a low interaction and there was even
a new term that was born during co time
which she is called the zoom fatigue.
>> You probably heard about that.
>> It's funny that it was zoom fatigue and
not Google meet fatigue.
>> I was really happy it was called zoom
fatigue. It's always better to put it on
the competitor whether it's negative.
Anyway,
>> bittersweet bittersweet.
>> So we had to work I mean in that case if
you can see we didn't really identify
motivators. We did identify demotivators
because sometime it's even easier
actually sometimes it's easier to let
you know what frustrates me or stress me
than tell you what makes me happy. So if
identifying emotional motivators turns
turns out to be complicated. So you can
try to identify those emotional
demotivators and in that case we had to
work on these three demotivators and
come up with solutions that could help
leverage that or at least reduce in way
or another. So when we worked on Zoom
fatigue, we actually realized and we uh
got help from a study that was published
from Stanford by the way that one of the
causes for the zoom fatigue was the fact
of seeing your self view.
>> It's not about seeing others, it's the
fact that you see yourself. Why? I mean
just imagine yourself walking on the
street and someone is holding a mirror
next to you. I mean even if you avoid
your brain will try always to check how
you look. So the fact that there was
self view was a big risk and it was even
listed as among the most significant
risk of zoom fatigue or causes of zoom
fatigue. So we worked on minimizing self
view. It's as simple as you can minimize
your self view. Meaning that you can
still broadcast or share your video but
you don't have to see yourself. That's
one example that we worked on. The
second one which was related to low
interaction and boredom. We tried to
understand how can we bring in a little
bit more of joy but at the same time
allow people to feel heard and seen and
active and that's how we actually
brought reaction imagery reaction you
know that waving hand or thumb up
because sometime it feels invasive to
unmute yourself and say I agree or like
cut the speaker for saying yes uh I
don't agree or something I mean these
emojis can help you stay alive stay
connected and present and somehow
improve the interrupt activity part. So
these are the two features that we
introduced back then.
>> That is such a cool example. I find
myself using Google Meet all the time
now instead of Zoom. So great job Google
Meet team. I know Zoom was winning for a
long time and now I feel like Google
meets really turned that around. Good
job. Let me ask a couple questions to
keep digging into this question. It
feels like
some cos founders leaders are like yes
this is worth investing in. Let's
definitely do it. There's a lot that
just like no stop this like we got other
stuff to do. What's your best advice for
trying to get buyin from SEO or just
some kind of leader that shutting this
kind of stuff down?
>> The very first advice is to try not to
convince. I mean honestly if you try to
convince it's a lost bottle I feel like
uh we live in a world where there's a
true there's a false. If you come to
your CEO and leader say like I heard
nine talking about the light we should
absolutely do that it uh it might seem
like a threat for for the organization
for the ways of working because it's
something new instead have you heard
about this concept of uh perception
versus uh perspective.
>> No I don't think so.
>> So perception is our way of seeing
things. This is exactly how we
understand things. This is how we are
convinced. For example, you listen to a
podcast talking about the light. Then
you are you have your own view about
what this is about. Perspective though
is the other view is the world view. How
other perceives the light. So there is
very likely it's very likely that others
like leaders and CEO the reason why
they're saying no is because their view
is that the line is about this nice to
have or the cherry on the top. So
instead of trying to convince and that's
why I said don't even try to convince is
to try to align and put yourself into
the leaders and the CEO shoe and try
what do they value most once you
understand that try to see how can the
light align or help achieve that goal
and let me share an example with you
because um when I left Google and I
started coaching founders and CPO I had
one founder actually who uh has been
running a c a startup for helping
musicians and artists to find curators.
I mean that's the core value and mission
of the startup and the when we initiated
the coaching side we actually started
talking about strategy OKR. I mean
that's exactly what he was he had in
mind. He wanted to get help into
creating product strategies and OKRs and
over time as we started like coaching we
ended up talking about the light. The
reason is I actually asked him this very
simple question. I asked him, do you
think your users are proud to use your
product? Are they proud enough to tell
others artist and musician to use your
product? And I think that was a really
hard question for him because after
reflection he said no they are not proud
because they feel like they are little I
mean they are getting our help so they
are not able to get curator by themsel.
So who's going to tell others that they
are little like artists and they are
having help from from us? That was the
beginning of the conversation and I
think after two weeks he kept coming
back saying hey narrin I think we need
to shift our entire strategy discussion
into how can we make our users proud of
using the product. We need to find ways
to turn our product into like our users
into proud users and so they can tell
others tell other musician they will
play the word of mouth game and they
will allow our product to succeed and
that's exactly what we did by the way.
So in the beginning this founder was
completely opposite to the fact that we
introduced the light into the product.
But as soon as he realized that the fact
that he invest into allowing their user
to feel proud is so important for the
growth and the word of mouth and the
success of the business that became the
number one strategy. And by the way
they've been growing. They are now
available in the US. So things are going
super well for them. But just to show
that the fact that you're saying no does
not necessarily mean that it's the wrong
thing. It's just it's not aligned
enough. You need to find way to align
them with what they value.
>> That's awesome advice. It's good advice
for just any thing you're trying to get
buy in from is understand their goals.
Connect what you're proposing to what
they want to achieve. And it's almost
like don't even use the word delight.
Just like think about okay here's what
they believe we need to do. How might
removing friction, antip anticipating
needs, and exceeding expectations
get us there?
>> Yeah.
>> And then later be like, haha, it's
delight.
Just kidding. Okay, that was an awesome
example. So along those lines, just when
you have all these ideas, we talked
about this a bit, but just like you have
a bunch of ideas, a bunch of ways to do
add delight, make it a better
experience. What's your advice for
prioritizing amongst all of the ways
that you can remove friction, anticipate
needs, exceed expectations? How do you
pick the things that are actually worth
investing in? The very first thing that
I really want to highlight here is that
we need to shift from the mindset that
tells us balancing or like a how can I
balance between the light and
functionality because we need to move
away from the light versus functionality
into the light in functionality. So
that's the biggest move that I really
want to share here because we should
really get away from idea that should I
prioritize delight or should I
prioritize functionality and remember
like a deep light it is that concept of
trying to solve problems and create
solutions in a way that emotion is taken
into consideration into that. And by the
way, I created this model called 50410.
And 50410 is actually a guidance or a
recommendation so that if you have done
your delight grade and you categorized
your solutions or your road map or your
backlog into low delight, surface
delight and deep delight 5010 will tell
you that 50% of your features should be
for low delight. Yes, 50% should be for
functionality only because like a
product has to function. I'm not saying
that you should only work on delight.
40% for deep delight where actually
functionality is there. It's just that
we are building it a little bit
different so that people will feel
valued and only 10% for surface delight.
I mean you can bring a little bit of
surface delight throughout the year
maybe two features a year that will just
bring that joy that people will create.
of course the brand and the personality
that we are working on and when I worked
at Spotify for example we had some times
where we of course blended all that into
the same road map like for example we
had a time where we were working on
improving search because at some time uh
maybe you don't remember that but at
some point of time like search was not
functioning that well so that was
improve improved and that's of course
functionality only and also we work on
introducing video podcast on on spot
Spotify and we worked on canvas. So
canvas by this small video looping
video, you know the small clip when you
open Spotify and you have like a small
clip.
>> Oh my my my son is addicted to that.
He's like he likes to play music and
then he found this thing that is like
Tik Tok for Spotify where he's just
listening to the music in these little
clips. I'm like
>> yeah,
>> how do I you know it's I don't want him
to be watching that. It's like little
iPad almost but but it is delightful for
my dogs.
>> So for me the success comes from the the
blending or the balancing or how can you
create a road map where you have a
bouquet of deep delight surface delight
and low delight all together.
>> These are awesome examples. Say someone
listening is super bought in. How do we
do this at our company? And then then
say they're a manager. Say they're like
a manager of PMs or even just a PM. Is
there something more they can do to
create kind of this culture of delight
being important
>> to start? It's a mindset and I call this
the delight culture. I mean uh of course
it's really important to talk about it
so that we understand what it is but it
has to be part of the culture of the
organization. I mean that's how I see
it. So for example at Google I've seen
that uh for during a long time we had a
like a product pillar called delight and
the fact that it was a permanent place
in the strategy and we see it all the
time that's actually a kind of reminder
that we need to build features and
create opportunities that map and align
with that pillars. I mean just the fact
as a director having this as a pillar is
a first step and the second thing is to
make it part of the routine. I mean the
routine of your and the rituals of your
company. So here an example when I
worked at Spotify we used to have
something called uh squad health check.
Maybe you heard about that at some
point. I mean something about checking
how how good is the team is functioning
and it was happening every quarter and
actually the leaders used to be
extremely religious about making sure
that the team is actually doing it and
the fact that they show that they care
made it happen every quarter. So the
leaders actually if they are b bought in
as you said and they are convinced they
have a a big role to play into putting
that in place by giving it a chance and
again when I worked at Spotify we had
something amazing called hack days I
mean I've seen it at other company but
it's never as good as at Spotify. So we
used to have hack days every month and
we used to have hack week toward the end
of the um the year and again the fact
that it's happening on a regular base
make the thinking and the mindset
completely adopted like the mindset of
innovation and going completely out of
box etc. So now I'm advocating for the
light days and I actually uh help
organizations setting up the light days
and I recently did this with a company
called Migros. It's actually the largest
supermarket chain in Switzerland and we
had hack days or like the light days in
that case where we actually of course
spoke about the light and then we
allowed all the teams to go crazy and
innovate and think about the lightful
features. It was very playful. The team
loves it and we ended the day by giving
them the chance to demo and we select
the best or the winning delight feature
that the the company will end up
implementing. So it's about putting it
as a routine in a continuous way so that
it become like part of the culture not
just a topic that is brought in once in
a while.
>> That sounds so fun. on a delight day.
And again, when people see hear this
word, it could sound like the confetti
example, but it's you keep coming back
to this point, delight is not just that
surface level low type of delight.
There's deep delight that solves
anticipated needs, exceed expectations,
or removes friction. So deep delight is
is is still a type of delight, but it's
actually one that also happens to solve
a functional need. Okay. It's
interesting. So as you talk, I've been
thinking about like what are the fastest
growing companies in the world? the top
product teams and it's interesting how
delight they're so delightful and I
don't think it's a coincidence. So I
think about cursor maybe the fastest
maybe the second fastest growing company
behind chat pt like speaking of
exceeding expectations you just like
click tab and it codes for you
anticipating needs that's like the
ultimate example of anticipating your
need it's writing your code for you okay
delight amazing uh lovable like it's
called lovable
>> amazing example chatbt if you can
imagine exceeding expectations and
blowing your mind incredible example of
delight. I think about linear as we're
talking just like they are winning in in
a very crowded space because they
invested in making it much more
delightful. Uh I think about if you know
the music AI app where it just like
creates magical music for you just
telling it what you want to hear. So
there's so much here of just like yes
there's a lot of power to making
especially in a crowded market in AI
especially just make it's almost like
table stakes now it needs to blow your
mind for anyone to pay attention. We
just need to be careful because the
surprise has an effect that vanish over
time. So there's this thing that is
called habituation effect. How can you
make sure that you're not just
surprising your user once when they use
it the first time and then they become
like normal use case. So you mentioned
like a couple of example of course I do
agree they are all delightful but one of
the element that that is part of the
delight checklist is are you or do you
at least have a plan to maintain that
delight or that surprise over time like
for example when we introduced
background replace in Google meet we
first introduced like a blur then we
added static image then we allowed for
video background then we added like a
immersive background where it's like a
moving slowly as if it's very real and
now they even have like AI generated
background. So it's about creating that
surprise over time in a complete
continuous way to avoid that habituation
effect.
>> Such a good point. Makes me think about
Snapchat who their only like strategy
was just keep out innovating everybody
else with new lenses and maps and all
like that was their whole thing. Just do
the newest thing. Keep doing it. Keep
doing new stuff to keep people excited.
Uh such a good example of hard to do.
Okay. Uh I know you also have a story
about Apple reactions uh as an example
of good or bad delight. Can you share
that?
>> It's actually a feature that very much
known nowadays, but maybe people don't
know exactly what's wrong or what's
what's good or what's bad about it. So
it actually happened a couple of years
ago now that actually Apple introduced
updates uh into their operating systems
and that update of course enabled the
fact that if you uh use gesture you
initiate like fireworks or whatever any
type of reaction.
>> I hate that Yes, it's just your
reaction and it happens actually during
the time where I worked at Google meet
and the reason why I remember it very
well is because we had a lot of
complaint from our meet users saying hey
what this feature is about I want to
disable it and we're like you need to
disable it on your like operating system
if you're using a Mac and why it's not
like inclusive by the way I mean this is
one of the example I use for the non
inclusiveness of of a delightful feature
because it did happen and that's a real
story by the way of being a person
having uh a call with a therapist having
a hurt finger and he was trying to show
his finger to the therapist and what
happened is like fireworks happening. I
mean what an appropriate time for
fireworks and of course bad press I mean
you want to avoid this bad press and and
that's why like delight is great but do
it in a conscious way and make sure that
it's adapted for all situation and all
all cases.
>> Wow. such a good example of delay gone
wrong. I I had so many podcast episodes
where the guest was like thumbs up and
then just this thing shows up and I did
stuff like what is going on here? What
is like no one told you it was turned
on? How do you even turn this thing off?
Oh my god. Uh that's such a good
example. Okay, I've covered everything I
was wanting to cover. Is there anything
that we haven't covered? Anything else
you wanted to share that uh you want to
share before we get to our very exciting
lightning round? We spoke about some of
the benefits of delight like driving
loyalties and retentions and word of
mouth and that's very much clear but
there is one overlooked benefit that
even myself I was not aware of and I
want to share that with you because it's
an interesting conversation I had a
couple of months ago. I was actually
giving at the light workshop in one of
the largest health tech uh company here
in France. It's called Dr. Lip and we
had an amazing day. We spoke about a lot
of ideas of the light but then toward
the end of the day I was approached by
the product director called Suzanne and
she actually told me something that
stick I think it's worth mentioning
here. She actually said, "Uh, Narin,
you've spoken about a lot of benefits of
the light, but there's one benefit I did
not mention at all." And I was curious
like, "What is it?" And she said, "Like,
I've seen all the PMs today super
motivated, excited like crazy." The fact
that PMs are working on the light brings
them very high level of motivation.
We're not talking about user motivation
here, but like the employee motivation.
And it's so real. I mean, of course, we
have some time to work on upgrades and
migrations and nonf fun stuff, but when
you work on delightful features, PMs are
super excited because they see a
reaction of users, they see the love of
the users, and they get even more
happier and more productive. And for me,
that's actually a real benefit that of
course I was not mentioning during the
day, but I think it's something that all
leaders can take into consideration
because we want to make light work life
more exciting and more more energizing.
>> That's a that's a really good point.
Like ideally, you find a thing that
you're very excited to build because
it's so fun and drives functional needs
and is just delightful, makes people
joyous and uh surprised. Uh, that's the
ven diagram we're shooting for. Amazing.
Okay. Well, with that, we've reached our
very exciting lightning round. I've got
five questions for you. Are you ready?
>> Oh, I'm ready.
>> What are two or three books that you
find yourself recommending most to other
people?
>> Uh, the first book is called
Factfulness.
Maybe you heard about it. It comes from
Ola Rosling and Hans Rosling and Anna
Rosling. The three are Swedish. It got
it's been a bestseller for years. It's
still a bestseller by the way, New York
Times. And here's the story. Actually, I
have a story about this book. Uh I was
living in Sweden back then. I've been
living in Sweden for about seven years,
by the way. And it was 2019, and I had
two kids, three and two at the time. And
as every Scandinavian, we've been
dreaming about having a cargo bike. So,
uh we started looking for a cargo bike.
And it happens that we found a cargo
bike parked it exactly on our building
yard. And so it had a for sale uh like a
sign. So we contacted the owner. It
ended up to be the bike belongs to Oola
Wrestling which is actually the author
of Factfulness. And so uh by the way uh
Ula used to be the data PM at Google
because he sold his uh statistic
software to Google at that time. And the
interesting part is that actually it's a
book that is about how can we drive our
thinking more using facts than using
bias. And this book was recommended by
Barack Obama and Bill Gates and
everyone. So the fun story is that I get
to read this book before anyone else
because it was released that day and I
met that guy who's awesome. So that's my
first book.
>> Wow, great story.
>> And the second book is actually very
close to my heart. It's called uh strong
product community by Petra who's been on
the show by the way. And the reason why
I recommend this book is because
actually I started my career in
research. I've been a researcher after
having my PhD for a long time and when I
moved from research to product I noticed
that there is a huge difference in the
fact how researcher contribute to
community versus product contributing to
community and I quickly really quickly
felt lonely when I became a PM because
as a researcher you go to conferences
you review each other's work and when
you become a PM you have nobody really
to review work or to collaborate closely
with. So for me it was really essential
from day one to become a speaker or to
contribute to some community whether
inside the company or outside the
company. For example at Google I was
initiating something like PM speaker
Siri where we invited people from the
outside to share their insights and
perspective. So with that I actually get
uh we invited Petra at that time and
then we she got uh uh she interviewed me
and the interview was featured in the
book. So if someone want to stay sane
and contribute and learn in a product
community, that's a great book I
recommend.
>> Awesome. Okay. Is there a favorite movie
or TV show you recently watched that you
really enjoyed?
>> I have a TV show and a movie. Which one
do you want to listen to?
>> Let's do TV show first.
>> TV show. Okay. So the TV show has
nothing to do with business or product.
It's called It's the equivalent of um
the American Greatest Baking, by the
way. It's called leoric
and here is why I love it. I mean of
course I love baking. We did not spoke
about that. But the reason why I love it
is because the candidates are not
professionals. Of course they are good
bakers but they are not professional.
Meaning that they make good cakes but
they fail a lot of cakes as well. And
this failure is the most exciting part
of the show. It makes it relatable. I
mean I succeed as many as I fail. And
the fact that I can see these failures
allow the show to be relatable. And
that's why for example I don't like
shows like Top Chef or whatever where
the candidate are super super uh
professionals and by the way I mean I
also participate a lot into cooking
classes and I love doing that and I
realize that most of the chef during
those classes talk about emotion and
they talk about we need to feel when we
taste and when we eat and maybe or just
maybe that's why I'm talking about the
light and emotional today with you.
>> Okay. Uh you said there's a movie too.
Let's share that.
>> The movie I have in mind is called Antu
Shab. Again, it's a French movie, but it
was so successful that there have been a
remake. The remake is called uh The
Upside. Maybe you've watched this movie.
So, this is based on a real story. And
the reason why I love this movie, I
mean, it's my favorite by far is because
you go through all emotion throughout
the entire movie. I mean you go through
joy to sorrow sadness all in the same uh
period and you even lost for complete
and appropriate uh situations and uh
there's one moment one particular
element that made this movie very
unforgettable and very special. It's
actually the soundtrack. The soundtrack
is something that is so special in the
movie and goes so well with the movie
that makes it completely unforgettable.
And so when I watched the remake, I was
completely disappointed because that
soundtrack was not part of the movie. So
I was completely disappointed as I said
and that's exactly what I call the
auntie delight. So I was auntie
delighted at that time under exceeded
expectations.
>> Yes.
>> Okay. Is there a favorite product you
recently discovered you really love?
>> So we spoke about Revolute. It turns out
to be one of my favorite product these
days because uh it's actually surprising
me almost every time. I mean this is one
of these rare products that every time I
use it there's a new surprise and they
are really applying this concept of
continuous surprise. It's not just like
one off and then they they they move to
something else. So I really like the
fact that they are continuously um
surprising users. But there's another
one actually that I might probably share
here where when I was interviewed for
Google, they asked me this question.
What's your favorite product? And that
was back like six or seven years ago.
And I I actually answered with a
complete non- tech products. I actually
said at that time the yo-yo stroller.
So the yo-yo stroller, it was a
surprise, yes, for the interviewer at
the time, but it turns out to be the
most successful interview I had because
the yo-yo stroller has something special
that really served one of my very much
need at the time. It's a stroller that
is completely affordable. There was no
one at that time that you can travel
with it in a plane. And at that time one
of my biggest stress and fear was taking
playing with small kids and how am I
going to manage those in lines and in
cues and that stroller served exactly my
emotional needs by allowing me to travel
and take the stroller with me on the
plane. So just sharing this story
because that was my answer for my Google
interview.
>> That's a really good example of an
emotional need of just like uh
confidence. This can work on a plane
when I'm all stressed out with my baby.
Uh, I went with up a baby stroller for
whatever it's worth. It doesn't fold as
well. Okay, two more questions. Is there
a life motto that you find yourself
coming back to sharing with friends and
family and worker in life?
>> It might sound cliche, but my life motto
would be shoot for the star or even
higher if you can. And I've been really
following this almost for my entire
career. Uh I told you that I started my
career in research and during my PhD. I
realized that most of my degree are
coming from France. So I really had to
introduce some international element
into it. So I wanted to apply for an
exchange program and uh when I applied
do you know who did I apply first like
who did I went straight with? M
>> Stanford like I applied for Stanford
like let's see how it goes. I mean the
guy answered and he said yes but you
have to pay a lot of fees. I mean that's
the policy. Okay. I didn't really manage
to get that sponsored. So I didn't also
want to reduce the prestige of the
university. So I applied for UCLA and it
did work. I mean for me that was
something that I really wanted from the
beginning have something extra or or
not. And I kept doing that throughout my
career. Like I wanted to work for the
best tech company and I work for Google.
I wanted to be featured in the best
podcast and I'm with you.
>> Nailed it.
>> We just have one goal to go which is to
be on one of the best stage and I'm
working on being on the TEDex. Why not?
>> There we go. No, you need TED, not TED
X.
That's the goal.
>> The original. Okay. I love this. Okay.
Final question. Say someone's coming to
Paris where you're based. Where do they
get the best croissant?
>> Actually, the best croissants are not
necessarily in the very fancy bakeries.
They are in those small bakeries that
you find on the corners and you have to
smell the butter. That's
>> smell the butter.
>> Yes. From the outside. If you don't get
it, it's not a good sign.
>> Wow. So, okay. So, if you can't smell
butter standing outside of this bakery,
it's not where you want to get your
croissant.
Wow. I've never heard that tip. Okay, I
need to know what butter smells like,
but I think I can I think I get it.
>> It smell like caramel with hazelnuts. I
mean, it smells really good. You need to
train your uh your ability to taste
that.
>> I love this answer. Isn't like this is
like teach a person to fish kind of
answer. Like you can find them if you
just go smell. Uh Nine, this was
awesome. It's everything I hoped it
would be. Uh we covered a ton of ground.
Let's tell people where to find your
book called Product Delight. The uh how
to make your products stand out with
emotional connection. Uh where do they
find it? Where do people find you and
how can listeners be useful to you?
>> Yeah, so uh people can reach out on my
website.
Uh they can of course reach out. There
is a contact form. I'm happy to get
their inquiry or question or whatever.
They can also learn more about the book.
uh there is a website for it like a
productbook.com.
I also started recently a newsletter
where it's called the light tips where I
actually share stories delightful
stories that I find useful for people to
get inspired with and something actually
very recently started happening like as
soon as I started talking about the
light people started spontaneously to
share their delightful stories like
either personal or professional and I
love those. So if anyone listening want
to share the life story, I would love to
listen to those and just want to end
with the fact that the life is a
movement. I mean when I started writing
this book uh a friend author told me the
following. He actually said when we're
writing about something is either
writing about a known problem, we're
giving a solution for a known problem or
we are giving a solution for an unknown
problem. And the second is harder. And I
chose the second. I mean, I'm going with
evangelizing, but the light is an
important thing. That's what's going to
allow your product to win and stand out.
I know it's harder, but I'm pretty sure
that that's what will help us create a
more delightful word. So, if they want
to have and implement a light culture
into their organization, they can reach
out and that's exactly what I love doing
with organizations.
>> Amazing. What a cool place to be, just
people sharing all these delightful
examples with you all day. What a cool
job. Uh, Nasarine, thank you so much for
being here.
>> Thank you, Lenny.
>> Bye, everyone.
Thank you so much for listening. If you
found this valuable, you can subscribe
to the show on Apple Podcasts, Spotify,
or your favorite podcast app. Also,
please consider giving us a rating or
leaving a review as that really helps
other listeners find the podcast. You
can find all past episodes or learn more
about the show at lennispodcast.com.
See you in the next episode.